**Containers, Collections, and Maps**

**Containers**

Containers are used to store a group of objects and allow for the addition, removal, and modification of those objects.

**Random String Generator**

The following code shows an example of a random string generator that uses a container to store a list of strings. The generator then uses an iterator to randomly select a string from the list and return it.

```java
public class RandomStringGenerator<T> implements Iterable<T> {
    private final List<T> list;

    public RandomStringGenerator(List<T> list) {
        this.list = list;
    }

    @Override
    public Iterator<T> iterator() {
        return new Iterator<T>() {
            @Override
            public boolean hasNext() {
                return true;
            }

            public T next() {
                return list.get((int) list.size() * Math.random());
            }
        };
    }
}
```

**Java Lambdas**

Java lambdas can be used to write concise and efficient code for iterators. For example, the following code shows how to use a lambda to write a random string generator that is equivalent to the previous example:

```java
public class RandomStringGenerator<T> implements Iterable<T> {
    private final List<T> list;

    public RandomStringGenerator(List<T> list) {
        this.list = list;
    }

    @Override
    public Iterator<T> iterator() {
        return list.stream().skip((int) list.size() * Math.random()).iterator();
    }
}
```

**Collections**

Collections are a subset of containers that provide a standard set of methods for adding, removing, and modifying objects.

**Sets**

Sets are collections that do not allow duplicate elements.

**Implementations**

* ConcurrentSkipListSet: A skip list implementation
* CopyOnWriteArraySet: An array implementation
* EnumSet: A bit-wise operation implementation
* HashSet: A hash table implementation
* ImmutableCollections.SetN: A hash table implementation
* LinkedHashSet: A hash table implementation
* TreeSet: A tree implementation

**Order**

* HashSets are unordered and sparse.
* TreeSets are implemented using red-black trees, which are essentially binary search trees. TreeSets can guarantee order.
* TreeSets' super interface is NavigableSet<T>.
  * lower/higher
  * floor/ceiling

**Maps**

Maps are collections that store key-value pairs.

**Implementations**

* HashMap
* TreeMap
* Hashtable
* SortedMap

**The essence of a map?**

The essence of a map is a key-value pair.

**Is a map a container of entries?**

Yes, a map is a container of entries. An entry is a key-value pair.

**Implementations**

* ConcurrentHashMap, HashMap, Hashtable, and LinkedHashMap are implemented using hash tables.
* TreeMap is implemented using a tree.
* ConcurrentSkipListMap is implemented using a skip list.
* EnumMap is implemented using bit-wise operations.

**LinkedHashMap can be used to implement LRUCache(Less Recent Use)**

LinkedHashMaps maintain a linked list of entries in insertion order. This can be used to implement an LRU cache, which is a cache that evicts the least recently used entries.

References:

- [How to Implement LRU Cache in Java](https://www.baeldung.com/java-lru-cache)
