# Terraform provisioners VS aws_instance userdata 

> Terraform provisioners and aws_instance userdata serve different purposes when provisioning AWS infrastructure with Terraform:

## Terraform provisioners 
Terraform provisioners are used to execute scripts or commands on a resource after it is created. For example, we could use a local-exec provisioner to run a script on an AWS EC2 instance after it is launched to configure software, update packages, etc. Provisioners only run when the associated resource is created or destroyed.

## userdata
aws_instance userdata is a property of the aws_instance resource that allows us to pass user data/startup scripts to an EC2 instance when it boots for the first time. This allows us to configure and customize the instance as part of the initial launch process. The userdata scripts will only run once on first boot.

The main differences:

1. Terraform provisioners run after resource creation. aws_instance userdata runs on first boot only.
2. Provisioners can run multiple times when a resource is changed. userdata runs once.
3. Provisioners give more control to configure resources post-creation. userdata is limited to initial instance setup.

### Terraform provisioners

```terraform
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  #...

  provisioner "local-exec" {
    command = "echo ${aws_instance.web.private_ip} >> private_ips.txt"
  }
} 
```

This `provisioner` runs a `local scrip`t to save the `private IP` of the `aws_instance` resource to a file. It will run after the `EC2` instance is created.

If the instance changes and is recreated, the provisioner will run again to update the IP address. Provisioners allow us to repeatedly take action on resources when they are created or updated.

### aws_instance userdata:

```terraform
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  #...

  user_data = <<-EOF
              #!/bin/bash
              yum update -y
              yum install -y httpd
              systemctl start httpd
              EOF
}
```

The userdata script here runs on first boot to update packages, install `httpd`, and start the web server. This automates instance setup on launch.

The userdata only **runs once** when the instance first boots. **_It does not run again on subsequent changes or recreates of the instance._**

To summarize:
- Provisioners help configure and update instances post-creation. They can run multiple times on resource changes. Use provisioners to repeatedly configure resources after creation/updates

- Userdata helps bootstrap instances on initial launch. It runs once when the instance first starts up.

Using them together provides both initial bootstrapping (userdata) and ongoing configuration (provisioners) for our infrastructure.

They solve related but distinct use cases when provisioning infrastructure with Terraform. We can use them together to get the full benefits of each.
