# Module Development

> Terraform modules are self-contained packages of Terraform configurations that represent a particular piece of infrastructure. These modules can be reused across different projects, enabling you to abstract complex resources into manageable building blocks. When developing modules, there are several crucial concepts to grasp.

## Key points of writing a module in terraform:

### 1. `variable` declares the **input** for your modules:

Variables are the bedrock of parameterizing your modules. They allow you to provide dynamic inputs to your module configurations. By defining variables, you can make your modules more flexible and adaptable to different scenarios. Variables can have various types, such as strings, numbers, lists, and maps, providing the necessary flexibility for your use cases.
```terraform
   variable "conditions" {
      description = "ALB rule conditions"
      default     = []
      type        = list(object({
         field  = string
         values = list(string)
      }))
   }
```
In this example, the conditions variable is defined to take a list of objects, each containing a field and a list of values.

### 2. `output` declares the **output**, which in turn can be used in the root project, or other modules(e.g. module.my_module.my_value)

Outputs are a way for modules to expose selected values to be accessed by the root module or other child modules. This feature enables better organization and communication between different parts of your infrastructure. By declaring outputs in your module, you provide a clear interface for interacting with the module's results.
```terraform
   output "module_output" {
     description = "Output from the module"
     value       = some_resource.some_value
   }
```
### 3. `Resources` can be stored within a module to allow easy provisioning of a logic component that consists of multiple resources(e.g. a database, an app with load balancer)

Modules aren't limited to defining variables and outputs; they can also include resources. This capability allows you to encapsulate complex logic and resource compositions within a single module. For instance, you might create a module that provisions an application with its associated database and load balancer.

### 4. Iteration constructs(for & for_each)
   
Terraform has evolved over time, and with the introduction of iteration constructs like for and for_each, the flexibility of module development has increased substantially. These constructs empower developers to iterate over various elements, making it possible to generate blocks of configurations dynamically.

```terraform
variable "conditions" {
  description = "ALB rule conditions"
  default     = []
  type        = list(object({
    field  = string
    values = list(string)
  }))
}

resource "aws_lb_listener_rule" "alb_rule" {
  # ... Some other configurations
  dynamic condition {
    # First for_each loop for condition {...} block
    for_each = var.conditions
    content {
      dynamic host_header {
        # Second for_each loop for the host_header {...} block within the condition {...} block
        for_each = condition.value.field == "host-header" ? [1] : []
        content {
          values = condition.value.values
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Putting It All Together

Let's tie everything together with a practical example. Suppose we have the following variable definition:

```terraform
variable "conditions" {
  description = "ALB rule conditions"
  default     = [{
    field = "host-header"
    values = [ "mydomain.com", "www.mydomain.com", "sub.mydomain.com"]
  }]
  type        = list(object({
    field  = string
    values = list(string)
  }))
}
```

With this variable definition, we can leverage our module to generate the following aws_lb_listener_rule configuration:

```terraform
resource "aws_lb_listener_rule" "alb_rule" {
  # ... Some other configurations
  condition {
    host_header {
      values = [ "mydomain.com", "www.mydomain.com", "sub.mydomain.com"]
    }
  }
}
```

Terraform module development is a cornerstone of building efficient, reusable, and maintainable infrastructure code. By encapsulating configurations, resources, and logic within modules, you can create a modular infrastructure architecture that adapts to changing requirements and scales seamlessly. Understanding key concepts like variables, outputs, resources, and iteration constructs enables you to harness the full potential of Terraform for your projects. Armed with this knowledge, you're well-equipped to architect and develop sophisticated infrastructure using Terraform modules.
