#  Node.js
## What is Node.js

> Node.js is an open-source, cross-platform, back-end JavaScript runtime environment that runs on the V8 Engine and executes JavaScript code outside a web browser.

## What is a runtime environment?
> The Node.js runtime is the software stack responsible for installing your web service's code and it's dependencies and running your service.

## What's the difference between req.params and req.query

`https://goodread.com/books/1`
`req.params.id = 1`

`https://goodread.com/books/1?order=asc`

## What is body-parser?
Body-parser is the Node.js body parseing middleware. It is responsible for parsing the incoming request bodies in a middleware before you handle it.

## What security mechanisms are?
> the standard security module - Helmet X-Frame-Options XSS Protection Strict transportation 

## Which tech (backend, frontend, python, reactjs, nodejs) do you prefer?

## Describe the best project(s) you have been working on

## node.js is single thread or multi thread application? (Event Loop)

## how can we make node.js simulate muti-threading?

## have you ever heard about V8 Engine? Why nodeJS use V8?

## What is the event loop

## what do you understand about callbacks?
indeterminate

## have you ever heard about callback hell?

## what kind of framework have been using with nodejs

## what's the difference between Express.Js and NestJS

## what is dependency injection

decorative imperative

## what do you understand about Streaming

## What is Event Emitters?

## What is the difference between Event Emitters and publisher and subscriber design pattern?

## in your understanding, what's the difference between mongodb and postgres

## do you have any experience with WebSockets

## what's the difference bettween one that use WebSockets to communicate  with the backend, and one application that use RESTful API to do the same?

## do you have experience with graphQL? and What is it? 

## How do you keep yourself up to date with nodejs? (skills improvement)

Keep practising

