---
title: 世界语语法一览
url: https://www.yuque.com/stevenyin/liv/dlbkw3aw8ey13gdz
---

1. There is no **indefinite article** (English *a, an*); there is only a **definite article** *la*, alike for all genders, cases and numbers (English *the*). The use of the article is as in other languages. People for whom use of the article offers difficulties (e.g. speakers of Russian, Chinese, etc.) may at first elect not to use it at all.
2. **Nouns** have the ending *-o*. To form the **plural**, add the ending *-j*. There are only two **cases**: nominative and accusative; the latter can be obtained from the nominative by adding the ending *-n*. The other cases are expressed with the aid of prepositions (genitive by *de* (English *of*), dative by *al* (English *to*), ablative by *per* (English *by means of*) or other prepositions, according to meaning).
3. **Adjectives** end in *-a*. Cases and numbers are as for nouns. The **comparative** is made with the word *pli* (English *more*), the **superlative** with *plej* (English *most*); for the comparative the conjunction *ol* (English *than*) is used.
4. The basic **numerals** (not declined) are: *unu, du, tri, kvar, kvin, ses, sep, ok, naŭ, dek, cent, mil* (English *one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, hundred, thousand*). Tens and hundreds are formed by simple juxtaposition of the numerals. To show ordinal numbers we add the adjective ending; for multiples, the suffix *-obl*; for fractions (actually, reciprocals), *-on*; for collectives, *-op*; for divisionals, the word (particle) *po*. Noun and adverb numerals can also be used.
5. Personal **pronouns**: *mi, vi, li, ŝi, ĝi* (for an object or animal), *si, ni, vi, ili, oni* (English *I, you, he, she, it, oneself, we, you, they, they-one-people*); the possessive pronouns are formed by addition of the adjective ending. Declension is as for nouns.
6. The **verb** does not change for person or number. Forms of the verb: present time takes the ending *-as*; past time, *-is*; future time, *-os*; conditional mood, *-us*; command mood, *-u*; infinitive mood, *-i*. Participles (with adjectival or adverbial meaning): present active, *-ant*; past active, *-int*; future active, *-ont*; present passive, *-at*; past passive, *-it*; future passive, *-ot*. All forms of the passive are formed with the aid of the corresponding form of the verb *esti* (English *to be*) and the passive participle of the required verb; the preposition with the passive is *de* (English *by*).
7. **Adverbs** can be formed from adjectives by changing the *-a* ending to an *-e* ending (like English *-ly*).
8. All **prepositions** take the nominative.
9. Every word is read as it is written.
10. The **accent** always falls on the next-to-last syllable (vowel).
11. **Compound words** are formed by simple juxtaposition of words (the main word stands at the end); the grammatical endings are also viewed as independent words.
12. When another **negative** word is present, the word *ne* (English *no, not*) is omitted.
13. To show **direction**, words take the accusative ending.
14. Every preposition has a definite and permanent meaning, but if we have to use a preposition and the direct meaning doesn't tell us what preposition we should take, then we use the preposition **je**, which has no independent meaning. Instead of *je* the accusative without a preposition may be used.
15. The so-called **foreign words**, i.e. those taken by the majority of languages from one source, are used in Esperanto without change, taking on only the orthography of this language; but for different words from a single root it is better to use without change only the basic word, and form the rest from this latter according to the rules of Esperanto.
16. The **final vowel** of the noun and the article may be dropped and replaced by an apostrophe (without effect on stress).
