# Events

GitHub Actions is a powerful automation tool that can supercharge your development workflow. One of its most crucial features is its ability to respond to various events that occur within your GitHub repositories. In this guide, we'll explore the world of GitHub Actions events, learning how to harness their full potential to automate your development processes.

## Available Events
GitHub Actions supports a wide range of events, each corresponding to a specific action or activity that occurs within a repository. These events are the triggers that initiate your workflows. Let's take a closer look at some of the most commonly used repository-related events:

# Mastering GitHub Actions Events: A Comprehensive Guide

GitHub Actions is a powerful automation tool that can supercharge your development workflow. One of its most crucial features is its ability to respond to various events that occur within your GitHub repositories. In this guide, we'll explore the world of GitHub Actions events, learning how to harness their full potential to automate your development processes.

## Available Events

GitHub Actions supports a wide range of events, each corresponding to a specific action or activity that occurs within a repository. These events are the triggers that initiate your workflows. Let's take a closer look at some of the most commonly used repository-related events:

### 1. `push`: Pushing a Commit

The `push` event occurs when a new commit is pushed to a branch. It's a fundamental event that's often used to trigger continuous integration (CI) and continuous deployment (CD) workflows.

### 2. `pull_request`: Pull Request Action

The `pull_request` event covers various actions related to pull requests, such as when they are opened, closed, or reopened. It's incredibly valuable for automating code reviews and quality checks.

### 3. `create`: Branch or Tag Creation

The `create` event triggers when a new branch or tag is created within the repository. It's useful for initiating workflows that involve branch management or version tagging.

### 4. `fork`: Repository Forked

The `fork` event occurs when someone forks your repository. You can use this event to enforce security checks or notify maintainers when forks are created.

### 5. `issues`: Issue Actions

The `issues` event encompasses actions related to issues, including when they are opened, deleted, or undergo other changes. You can automate issue triage, labeling, or assignment with this event.

### 6. `issue_comment`: Issue or Pull Request Comment Action

The `issue_comment` event triggers when a comment is made on an issue or pull request. It's handy for automating responses, notifications, or bot interactions.

### 7. `watch`: Repository Starred

The `watch` event is fired when someone stars (or watches) your repository. You can use this event to express gratitude or provide newcomers with helpful information.

### 8. `discussion`: Discussion Action

The `discussion` event covers actions related to GitHub Discussions, such as when they are created or deleted. It's essential for automating community engagement.

And many more! These events enable you to create workflows that respond to virtually every aspect of your repository's lifecycle.

### Other Events

Apart from repository-related events, GitHub Actions also supports other events:

- `workflow_dispatch`: This event allows you to manually trigger workflows. It's ideal for ad-hoc tasks or testing.

- `workflow_call`: Workflows can call other workflows, enabling modular automation.

- `repository_dispatch`: You can trigger workflows through a REST API request, which is useful for integrating external services or systems.

- `schedule`: Schedule workflows to run at specific times or intervals, such as nightly backups or weekly reports.

## Activity Types & Filters

While the basic event types are incredibly powerful, GitHub Actions takes event handling a step further by allowing you to specify activity types and apply filters. This gives you more granular control over when your workflows should be triggered.

### Activity Types

Activity types refine when a workflow runs based on the specific action within an event. For example, the `push` event has activity types like `opened`, `closed`, and `edited`, which correspond to different actions within a push event.

Here's an example of a workflow that uses activity types:

```yaml
  # This is the name of the GitHub Actions workflow.
  name: Event Types and Filters

  # This section defines when the workflow should run, based on various events.
  on:
    # The workflow runs when a push event occurs on the specified branches.
    push:
      branches:
        - main
        - master
        - feature/**
      # Ignore push events on branches that match the 'release/**' pattern.
      branches-ignore:
        - release/**
      # Ignore push events with tags that match the 'release-2020.**' pattern.
      tags-ignore:
        - release-2020.**
      # Trigger the workflow for specific tags, such as 'release-2023'.
      tags:
        - release-2023

    # The workflow also runs when specific pull request events occur.
    pull_request:
      types:
        - opened
        - closed
        - reopened

  # This section defines the jobs that will run as part of the workflow.
  jobs:
    # This is the name of the job.
    print:
      # Specifies the runner environment for this job (e.g., Ubuntu).
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest

      # This section defines the steps that the job will perform.
      steps:
        # This is the name of the step.
        - name: print
          # This is the command that will run in the step.
          run: |
            echo "Hallo!"
```

In this workflow, we've specified that it should run when a `push` event occurs on specific branches (`main`, `master`, and `feature/**`) and when certain tag-related conditions are met. Additionally, it triggers for various actions (`opened`, `closed`, and `reopened`) within the `pull_request` event.

### Filters

Filters further enhance event control by allowing you to define conditions based on specific criteria. For instance, you can filter the `push` event based on the target branch, ensuring that your workflow only runs when changes are pushed to certain branches like `main` or `dev`.

Here's an example of using filters to control the `push` event:

```yaml
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
      - dev
```

With this configuration, the workflow will trigger only when pushes are made to the `main` or `dev` branches, ignoring changes to other branches.

GitHub Actions provides a wealth of options for refining your workflow triggers, from specifying which branches and tags to respond to, to filtering based on specific events and their actions. By mastering these event types, activity types, and filters, you can fine-tune your automation processes, making them more efficient and tailored to your project's needs.

## Special Attention to Forked repository

By default, pull requests based on Forks do **NOT** trigger a workflow because everyone can fork and open pull requests, if malicious workflow runs, there are excess cost would be caused. So first-time contributors must be approved manually to avoid spam from untrusted contributors. 

```yaml
  # This is the name of the GitHub Actions workflow.
name: Event Types and Filters

# This section defines when the workflow should run, based on various events.
on:
# The workflow runs when a push event occurs on the specified branches.
push:
  branches:
    - main
    - master
    - feature/**
```

## Conclusion

GitHub Actions' event system is the backbone of its automation capabilities, enabling you to respond to a wide array of activities within your repositories. Whether you want to automate code testing on every push, enforce code review processes, or perform routine tasks on a schedule, GitHub Actions has you covered.

By understanding the available events, activity types, and filters, you gain the ability to create workflows that are not just powerful but also finely tuned to your project's requirements. With GitHub Actions, you're not just automating tasks; you're streamlining your development pipeline, increasing collaboration, and ultimately delivering better software, faster.
